New Releases VM v5.4.1, Tx v3.2.1, Common v2.3.1 (#1295)
ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo: packages/tx/CHANGELOG.md

So we've decided to do the following tweaks to the libray:

### New Rules for Internal Default HF Setting

Up to `v3.2.0` it was simply necessary/mandatory to pass in a `Common` instance for typed tx instantiation (otherwise the instantiation process would have thrown an error). For compatibility reasons the tx library was still on `istanbul` as the default HF and both `EIP-2930` (access lists) and `EIP-1559` (fee market) txs needed a higher (`berlin` respectively `london`) HF setting. After some reflection we have therefore decided to adopt our tx library tx type default HF setting and go with the following expanded rule:

"The default HF is the default HF from `Common` if the tx type is active on that HF. Otherwise it is set to the first greater HF where the tx is active."

This has been done in PR [#1292](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1292). This should be safe to do since there just are no txs of the specific type before this new default HF (`EIP-2930`: `istanbul` -> `berlin`, `EIP-1559`: `istanbul` -> `london`).

### More Intelligent Default Chain Instantiation

> We tried to get more intelligent on the instation with a default chain if no `Common` is provided. On older versions of the library `mainnet` was the default fallback here. For typed tx the chain ID is also provided as a data parameter along instantiation. This chain ID parameter is now taken for the internal `Common` and therefore the internal chain setting. Same for signed EIP-155 respecting legacy txs, there the chain ID is now extracted from the `v` parameter provided and the internal `Common` initialized accordingly. For unsigned or non-EIP-1559 legacy txs the chain for `Common` still defaults back to `mainnet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We tried to get more intelligent on the instantiation with a default chain if no `Common` is provided. On older versions of the library `mainnet` was the default fallback here. For typed txs the chain ID is also provided as a data parameter along instantiation. This chain ID parameter is now used for the internal `Common` and therefore the internal chain setting. Same for signed EIP-155 respecting legacy txs, there the chain ID is now extracted from the `v` parameter provided and initialized with the internal `Common` accordingly. For unsigned or non-EIP-1559 legacy txs the chain for `Common` still defaults back to `mainnet`.
```

Both these changes with the new default HF rules and the more intelligent chain ID instantiation now allows for an e.g. `EIP-155` tx instantiation without a Common (and generally for a safer non-Common tx instantiation) like this:

```typescript
import Common from '@ethereumjs/common'
import { FeeMarketEIP1559Transaction } from '@ethereumjs/tx'

const txData = {
  "data": "0x1a8451e600000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  "gasLimit": "0x02625a00",
  "maxPriorityFeePerGas": "0x01",
  "maxFeePerGas": "0xff",
  "nonce": "0x00",
  "to": "0xcccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc",
  "value": "0x0186a0",
  "v": "0x01",
  "r": "0xafb6e247b1c490e284053c87ab5f6b59e219d51f743f7a4d83e400782bc7e4b9",
  "s": "0x479a268e0e0acd4de3f1e28e4fac2a6b32a4195e8dfa9d19147abe8807aa6f64",
  "chainId": "0x01",
  "accessList": [],
  "type": "0x02"
}

const tx = FeeMarketEIP1559Transaction.fromTxData(txData)
```

> Note that depending on your usage context it might still be a good idea to instantiate with `Common` since you then have a deterministic state setup, explicitly know what rule set your tx is operating on and are safe towards eventual future behavioral changes (e.g. on a default HF update along a major version tx library bump).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that depending on your usage context it might still be a good idea to instantiate with `Common` since you then have a deterministic state setup, explicitly know what rule set your tx is operating on, and are safe towards eventual future behavioral changes (e.g. on a default HF update along a major version tx library bump).
```
